The concept of "deserving" feels surprisingly arbitrary, and I doubt this is a
particularly common feeling. Most often, the verb "deserve" is used in a
sentence like "I deserved to get the position I applied for over". However,
such a phrase seems to imply "I deserve to get a reward (position, in this
case) over the other applicants".

Why does one "deserve" anything? Commonly, "poor circumstances" are used to
justify deservingness over others. However, if
questioned upon this idea, the conversation ubiquitously turns to the idea that
it's not about poor circumstances, but rather that they had to work harder for
some target reward than others applying. Does "hard work" itself result in
deservingness? Perhaps, but this seems rather arbitrary. The level two of this
line of thinking is that it's not the hard work for the position, but rather
the improvement and persistance that should be measured. Someone from a less
fortunate background must have proven their work ethic, problem solving, and
exceptional perserverence if they manage to match someone from a more wealthy
background.

This argument feels satisfying when one considers not the improvement, not the
perserverance, but rather the future potential. If I were a job owner, I
wouldn't care about the background of the candidate, but rather the potential
they have to benefit my business. From that perspective, however, there is no
deservingness that exists except from the lens of the hirer.

From this thinking, I wonder how to analyze statements like "all children
deserve the opportunity to have a good education." On one hand, of course I
agree, who doesn't deserve the opportunity to be educated. On the other, does
deservingness come into play, or is this solely optimalism?

#Thought Experiment:

Island of 99 people (equal distribution of low, medium, and high skill, chosen
arbitrarily by a higher power to be stuck on the island).
10 high skill jobs
 - Do the most fitting candidates deserve the job? I.e. do previous mechanics
   deserve the jobs that are focused on mechanical work?
 - Do the most skilled (some universal measure) deserve the jobs? If it helps
   the though process, imagine everyone is the same profession for this
   question, and we can measure the exact proficiency of each candidate for the
   job in a single number.
 - If the job starts a week after we are put on the island, and I alone spend
   the entire week practicing the job skills, do I now deserve the job?
 - If I really want the job, but everyone else is only slightly above impartial
   in their want, do I deserve the job over them?



